Name: Tyler Logan
Evergreen Login: logtyl02
Computer Science Foundations
Programming as a Way of Life
Fall 2013
Homework 3 

For each problem that requires a written answer, write (or copy-and-paste)
your answers in this file.  When you are done, you should have replaced all
the ellipses (the three dots) with your answers.

At the end, you will turn in this file along with your modified
dna_analysis.py program.


Problem 1:

(No answers in this file.)

Problem 2:

GC-content: 0.43029262963

Problem 3:

After commenting out the two lines and re-running the program, Python throws an exception, "NameError: name 'linenum is not defined." Because we commented out the declaration linenum = 0, when the program later needs to refer to, or change this variable, it can't find it.

If we comment out gc_count = 0, the program would run through the first part, where it counts the total bp's, but then throw a NameError when it goes to the next part which requires gc_count to be defined. This is a difference between interpreted languages like Python, and a compiled language like C++. C++ would probably throw an error on compilation, rather than execution, but Python doesn't read the code the whole way through, and so only errors when it hits a stumbling block.

Problem 4:

Manual (for test-small.fastq):

	A count: 5
	T count: 2
	G count: 1
	C count: 2
	AT: 7
	GC: 3
	total count: 10
	GC-content: 0.3
	AT-content: 0.7

sample_1.fastq, via the script:

    GC-content: 0.43029262963
    AT-content: 0.568993851852

Collaboration:

Did this one entirely on my own. The instructions and exisiting code were enough.
I used WolframAlpha to compute the gc and at content manually.

Reflection:

I enjoyed this assignment. Parsing data like this is relevant to many fields, including game programming (which I'm interested in), where one could use techniques like this to get vertex information from a 3d model in order to draw it to the screen.

Something I learned from this assignment is that casting the first input of a math operation as a float will return the answer as a float.

I think that some extra (garbage?) letters / data in the files, is causing the content to be slightly off from the expected results.
